10 facts about Maserati that drive you crazy 

An engine on a bicycle, competition on water, Formula 1 victories, a female racer and a few more amazing stories 

The legendary Italian company Maserati throughout its history won not only in races. All endeavors, where the Maserati brand appeared, magically turned into triumph. The glorious history, of course, did not do without bright personalities, incredible coincidences and ingenious decisions. We have collected 10 stories that influenced the present and future of Maserati. 

The bicycle that drives itself

One of the Maserati brothers, namely the eldest, Carlo, was a passionate fan of bicycles. It was Carlo who had a hand in the first Maserati car. But before the engineer created an unusual bicycle, attaching a single-cylinder motor to the frame. By the way, Carlo developed this motor specifically for the bicycle - there were no analogs in the world at that time. 

So, Carlo liked the idea so much that he perfected his project: he eliminated malfunctions, strengthened the design and even slightly increased the power of the engine. Later he raced on this bicycle, where in 1900 he set a speed record of 50 km/h. An unthinkable figure even for a modern civilian bicycle

Trident and 200 km/h

The trident of Neptune, which is painted on all modern models of Maserati, the company began to use since 1926. And the first car that received the stylish logo was the legendary Tipo 26. Later this car became a kind of base for the development of several modifications - more powerful, advanced and, most importantly, fast. 

But the very first Maserati Tipo 26 was very good in terms of technical characteristics. Under the hood it had an eight-cylinder engine, which gave 120 hp. This power was quite enough to accelerate to 200 km/h. Can you imagine that kind of speed in the 1920s? 

Maserati = sport 

From the first days of its existence, Maserati took an active part in racing, and the first loud victories did not take long to come. At the beginning of the XX century the Italians had tough competition, but even in such conditions Maserati managed to show strong results. 

The company is especially proud of the performances in the Indianapolis 500 races, which are held in the United States. In 1939, American Wilbur Shaw, driving a Maserati 8CTF, took first place there. Moreover, exactly one year later, the same crew finished first again. This is one of the best and brightest performances among all European manufacturers in the Indianapolis 500.

A resounding victory in Formula 1

After victories in Indianapolis, Maserati thought about performances in Formula 1. However, the strict regulations of the “Royal Race” for a long time did not allow the Italian brand to declare its car. Everything changed in 1952, when the rules of participation were adjusted - in particular, the technical requirements for sports cars. 

Two years later, in 1954, Maserati took first place at the Argentine Grand Prix. The triumphant car was the 250F, which imposed the fiercest competition to the leaders of Formula 1 for several years ahead. But the most resounding success is considered to be the result of 1957, when the same 250F became the best in the results of the whole season.

Count and records on the water 

At the beginning of the XX century, a new competition appeared in Europe, which did not give rest to automobile companies - it was motorboat racing. Maserati came to this sport later than many brands, but immediately achieved success. Moreover, the company made it so that Italian boats began to be perceived almost as the main favorites in all competitions. 

The main triumphant Maserati was Count Theo of Russia, who was terribly fond of racing on the water. He together with the company experimented with different engines and even proposed to install two motors on one vessel at once - no one had ever done such a thing in those days. During the first race on an experimental boat on a lake in Lombardy Theo Russia overturned at great speed, shocking rivals and organizers. However, two days later, the Count developed 114 km/h - it was the best result in those days.

The Maserati MC12 that beat the odds 

There are records in motorsport in the recent history of Maserati. First of all, they are connected with the inimitable supercar MC12 - the car that remained the best in the FIA GT series for three years in a row. At the wheel of the car was Andrea Bertolini - one of the best Italian drivers. 

And it is interesting that Bertolini took an active part in the development of Maserati MC12, including running the car during testing. By the way, MC12 is also one of the most stylish bolides of our time: its origin is easily readable due to the unique design of Maserati of the middle of “noughties”. The MC12 was powered by a huge 745-horsepower turbocharged engine. 

The first female racer (she drove a Maserati)

Closely associated with the Maserati brand is Maria Teresa de Filippis, a woman who forever inscribed her name in the history of world motorsport. In 1958, she made her debut at the Formula 1 Grand Prix, becoming the first female driver in the “Royal Race”. A month later, Maria Teresa de Filippis arrived at the Monaco race, and in a Maserati. 

Of course, de Filippis was hard to compete with male pilots in Formula 1 - already in the middle of the last century, speeds went to a prohibitive level, and to drive a bolide physically was extremely difficult. The Italian finished her career as a pilot at the age of 23, but in 1979 she was appointed vice-president of the International Club of drivers-veterans of Formula 1.

Tea Race record

36 days, 2 hours, 37 minutes and 2 seconds - that's how long it took the Maserati Multi 70 trimaran to complete the route of the famous “Tea Race” between Hong Kong and London. The Italian vessel, led by skipper Giovanni Soldini, covered 15,083 nautical miles at an average speed of 17.4 knots - another Maserati record. 

By the way, immediately after the race, Soldini admitted that the time could have been improved - from a technical point of view, the Maserati Multi 70 was perfectly prepared, but the weather intervened. Due to the difficult conditions, the team lost about 3 days in the Atlantic. 

A sports car for four 

Every new Maserati model is examined as if under a microscope - the company has accustomed the automotive world to unusual solutions throughout its history. The Italians made a real sensation in 1963, when the Quattroporte sedan made its debut. Not only it was the first four-door of the brand, but also the first sports sedan on the planet. 

With the release of the Maserati Quattroporte, the Italians essentially opened a new segment. Later, leading car brands would also release their business-class sport sedans, but every time Maserati was one step ahead. In 2013, the Italians released the fourth-generation Quattroporte - big, powerful, technologically advanced, fast and incredibly stylish.

Acrobatic loop

Maserati not only has a glorious history with magnificent victories, unusual records, bold decisions and, of course, stylish and very fast cars. Right now, the brand boasts the coolest showroom in the world. It is located in Modena, and its concept was developed by Ron Arad - a cult designer, who is known for his original approach. 

It is a whole complex of structures made of glass and steel, but the most interesting thing is inside, in the lobby of the main competition. Here the concept of the so-called acrobatic loop is realized. The giant structure weighing 10 tons consists of 21 sections. It is a kind of automobile portal - a mixture of the past, present and future of Maserati.
