10 facts about Maserati that will drive you crazy

An engine on a bicycle, water competitions, victories in Formula 1, a female racer and some more amazing stories

The legendary Italian company Maserati has won victories not only in racing throughout its history. All endeavors involving the Maserati brand magically turned into triumph. The glorious history, of course, was not without bright personalities, incredible coincidences and ingenious solutions. We have collected 10 stories that influenced the present and future of Maserati.

A bicycle that rides itself

One of the Maserati brothers, namely the eldest, Carlo, was a passionate fan of bicycles. It was Carlo who had a hand in the first Maserati car. But first, the engineer created an unusual bicycle by attaching a single-cylinder engine to the frame. By the way, Carlo developed this motor entirely specifically for a bicycle - there were no analogues in the world at that time.

So, Carlo liked this idea so much that he brought his project to perfection: he eliminated malfunctions, strengthened the structure and even slightly increased engine power. Later, he took part in races on this bicycle, where in 1900 he set a speed record of 50 km/h. An unthinkable figure even for a modern civilian bicycle

Trident and 200 km/h

The company began using the Trident of Neptune, which adorns all modern Maserati models, in 1926. Moreover, the first car to receive a stylish logo was the legendary Tipo 26. Later, this car became a kind of base for the development of several modifications - more powerful, advanced and, most importantly, faster.

But the very first Maserati Tipo 26 was very good in terms of technical characteristics. Under the hood it had an eight-cylinder engine that produced 120 hp. This power was enough to accelerate to 200 km/h. Can you imagine such speed in the 1920s?

Maserati = sport

From the first days of its existence, Maserati took an active part in racing, and the first high-profile victories were not long in coming. At the beginning of the 20th century. The Italians had tough competition, but even in such conditions Maserati managed to show strong results.

The company is especially proud of its performance in the Indianapolis 500 race, which takes place in the United States. In 1939, American Wilbur Shaw, driving a Maserati 8CTF, took first place there. Moreover, exactly one year later the same crew finished first again. This is one of the best and brightest performances of any European manufacturer at the Indianapolis 500.

A resounding victory in Formula 1

After victories in Indianapolis, Maserati began to think about competing in Formula 1. However, the strict regulations of the Royal Races did not allow the Italian brand to enter its car for a long time. Everything changed in 1952, when the rules of participation were adjusted - in particular, the technical requirements for sports cars.

Just two years later, in 1954, Maserati took first place at the Argentine Grand Prix. The winner was the 250F, which imposed fierce competition on the leaders of Formula 1 for several years to come. But the most resounding success is considered to be the result of 1957, when the same 250F became the best for the entire season.

Count and water records

At the beginning of the 20th century. In Europe, a new competition appeared that haunted automobile companies - we are talking about motorboat racing. Maserati entered this sport later than many brands, but immediately achieved success. Moreover, the company made it so that Italian boats began to be perceived almost as the main favorites in all competitions.

The main triumphant of Maserati was Count Theo of Russia, who was terribly passionate about racing on water. Together with the company, he experimented with different engines and even proposed installing two engines on one ship at once - no one had ever done this in those days. During the first race on an experimental boat on a lake in Lombardy, Theo Russia capsized at great speed, shocking his rivals and organizers. However, just two days later the count reached 114 km/h - this was the best result in those days.

Maserati MC12, which overtook everyone

There are also records in motorsport in the recent history of Maserati. First of all, they are associated with the inimitable MC12 supercar, a car that has been the best in the FIA GT series for three years in a row. The car was driven by Andrea Bertolini , one of the best Italian racers.

Moreover, it is interesting that Bertolini took an active part in the development of the Maserati MC12, including running the car during testing. By the way, the MC12 is also one of the most stylish cars of our time: its origins are easy to read thanks to the unique Maserati design of the mid-2000s. The MC12 was powered by a huge 745-horsepower turbocharged engine.

First female racing driver (she drove a Maserati)

Closely associated with the Maserati brand is Maria Teresa de Filippis , a woman who forever inscribed her name in the history of world motorsport. In 1958, she made her debut at the Formula 1 Grand Prix, becoming the first female driver in the Royal Race. A month later, Maria Teresa de Filippis arrived at the race in Monaco, and in a Maserati.

Of course, it was difficult for de Filippis to compete with male pilots in Formula 1 - already in the middle of the last century, speeds reached prohibitive levels, and it was physically extremely difficult to drive the car. The Italian finished her career as a driver at the age of 23, but already in 1979 she was appointed vice-president of the International Club of Veteran Formula 1 Drivers.

Tea Race record

36 days, 2 hours, 37 minutes and 2 seconds - that’s how long it took the Maserati Multi 70 trimaran to cover the route of the famous “Tea Race” between Hong Kong and London. The Italian vessel, under the leadership of skipper Giovanni Soldini, covered 15,083 nautical miles at an average speed of 17.4 knots – another Maserati brand record.

By the way, immediately after the race, Soldini admitted that the time could have been improved - from a technical point of view, the Maserati Multi 70 was prepared perfectly, but the weather intervened. Due to difficult conditions, the team lost approximately 3 days in the Atlantic.

Sports car for four

Each new Maserati model is examined as if under a microscope - throughout history, the company has accustomed the automotive world to unusual solutions. The Italians made a real splash in 1963 when the Quattroporte sedan debuted . Not only was it the brand’s first four-door , it was also the planet’s first sports sedan.

With the release of the Maserati Quattroporte, the Italians essentially opened a new segment. Later, leading automobile brands would also release their business-class sports sedans, but every time Maserati was one step ahead. In 2013, the Italians released the fourth generation Quattroporte - large, powerful, technologically advanced, fast and incredibly stylish.

Acrobatic loop

Maserati not only has a glorious history with magnificent victories, unusual records, bold decisions and, of course, stylish and very fast cars. Right now the brand boasts the coolest showroom in the world. It is located in Modena and was conceptualized by Ron Arad, an iconic designer known for his original approach.

This is a whole complex of glass and steel structures, but the most interesting thing is inside, in the lobby of the main competition. The concept of the so-called acrobatic loop is implemented here. The giant structure weighs 10 tons and consists of 21 sections. This is a kind of automotive portal - a mixture of past, present, future Maserati.
