10 facts about Maserati that drive you crazy 

An engine on a bike, competitions on the water, victories in Formula 1, a female racer and some more amazing stories 

Throughout its history, the legendary Italian company Maserati has won victories not only in races. All initiatives where the Maserati brand appeared magically turned into a triumph. The glorious history, of course, was not without bright personalities, incredible coincidences and ingenious solutions. We have collected 10 stories that have influenced the present and future of Maserati.

A bicycle that rides itself

One of the Maserati brothers, namely the eldest, Carlo, was a passionate fan of bicycles. It was Carlo who had a hand in the first Maserati car. But first, the engineer created an unusual bicycle by attaching a single-cylinder motor to the frame. By the way, Carlo developed this motor entirely specifically for the bicycle - there were no analogues in the world at that time. 

So, Carlo liked this idea so much that he brought his project to perfection: he eliminated malfunctions, strengthened the design and even slightly increased the engine power. Later, he participated in races on this bicycle, where in 1900 he set a speed record of 50 km/h

Trident and 200 km/h

The Neptune Trident, which adorns all modern Maserati models, the company began to use in 1926. Moreover, the first car to receive a stylish logo was the legendary Tipo 26. Later, this car became a kind of base for the development of several modifications - more powerful, advanced and, most importantly, faster. 

But the very first Maserati Tipo 26 was also very good in terms of technical characteristics. Under the hood, it had an eight-cylinder engine that produced 120 hp. This power was enough to accelerate to 200 km/h. Can you imagine such a speed in the 1920s?

Maserati = sport 

From the first days of its existence, Maserati took an active part in racing, and the first resounding victories were not long in coming. At the beginning of the 20th century, the Italians had fierce competition, but even in such conditions, Maserati managed to show strong results. 

The company is especially proud of its performances in the Indianapolis 500 races, which take place in the United States. In 1939, the American Wilbur Shaw, driving a Maserati 8CTF, took first place there. Moreover, exactly a year later, the same crew finished first again. This is one of the best and brightest performances among all European manufacturers in the Indianapolis 500.

Resounding victory in Formula 1

After the victories in Indianapolis, Maserati is thinking about racing in Formula 1. However, the strict regulations of the Royal Races did not allow the Italian brand to declare its car for a long time. Everything changed in 1952, when the rules of participation were adjusted – in particular, the technical requirements for sports cars. 

Two years later, in 1954, Maserati took first place at the Argentine Grand Prix. The triumphant was the 250F car, which imposed fierce competition on the leaders of Formula 1 for several years to come. But the most resounding success is considered to be the result of 1957, when the same 250F became the best in the results of the entire season.

Graph and records on the water 

At the beginning of the XX century, a new competition appeared in Europe, which haunted automobile companies - we are talking about motor boat racing. Maserati came to this sport later than many brands, but immediately achieved success. Moreover, the company made it so that Italian boats began to be perceived almost as the main favorites in all competitions. 

The main triumphant of Maserati was Count Theo of Russia, who was terribly passionate about racing on the water. Together with the company, he experimented with different engines and even proposed to install two engines on one vessel at once - no one had ever done this in those days. During the first race on an experimental vessel on a lake in Lombardy, the Theo of Russia capsized at high speed, shocking rivals and organizers. However, two days later, the count developed 114 km/h - this was the best result at that time.

The Maserati MC12 that overtook everyone 

There are also records in motorsport in the recent history of Maserati. First of all, they are related to the inimitable MC12 supercar, a car that has remained the best in the FIA GT series for three years in a row. At the wheel of the car was Andrea Bertolini, one of the best Italian drivers. 

Moreover, it is interesting that Bertolini took an active part in the development of the Maserati MC12, including running in the car during test tests. By the way, the MC12 is also one of the most stylish cars of our time: its origin is easy to read thanks to the unique design of Maserati in the mid-noughties. The MC12 was powered by a huge 745-horsepower turbocharged engine.

The first female driver (she drove a Maserati)

Closely associated with the Maserati brand is Maria Teresa de Filippis, a woman who has forever inscribed her name in the history of world motorsport. In 1958, she made her debut at the Formula 1 Grand Prix, becoming the first female driver in the Royal Races. A month later, Maria Teresa de Filippis arrived at the race in Monaco, and in a Maserati. 

Of course, it was difficult for de Philippis to compete with male drivers in Formula 1 - already in the middle of the last century, the speed reached an exorbitant level, and it was extremely difficult to drive a car physically. The Italian ended her career as a driver at the age of 23, but in 1979 she was appointed vice-president of the International Club of Veteran Drivers of Formula 1.

Tea Race record

36 days, 2 hours, 37 minutes and 2 seconds – this is how long it took the Maserati Multi 70 trimaran to overcome the route of the famous "Tea Race" between Hong Kong and London. The Italian vessel, led by skipper Giovanni Soldini, sailed 15,083 nautical miles at an average speed of 17.4 knots – another Maserati record. 

By the way, immediately after the race, Soldini admitted that the time could have been improved - from a technical point of view, the Maserati Multi 70 was perfectly prepared, but the weather interfered. Due to difficult conditions, the team lost approximately 3 days in the Atlantic.

Sports car for four 

Each new Maserati model is viewed as if under a microscope - the company has historically accustomed the automotive world to unusual solutions. The Italians made a real splash in 1963, when the Quattroporte sedan debuted. Not only was it the brand's first four-door, but it was also the first sports sedan on the planet. 

With the launch of the Maserati Quattroporte, the Italians have essentially opened up a new segment. Later, the leading car brands would also launch their business sports sedans, but each time Maserati was one step ahead. In 2013, the Italians released the fourth generation Quattroporte - large, powerful, technologically advanced, fast and incredibly stylish.

Acrobatic Loop

Maserati has not only a glorious history with magnificent victories, unusual records, bold decisions and, of course, stylish and very fast cars. Right now, the brand boasts the coolest showroom in the world. It is located in Modena, and its concept was developed by Ron Arad, an iconic designer who is known for his original approach. 

This is a whole complex of glass and steel structures, but the most interesting thing is inside, in the lobby of the main competition. The concept of the so-called acrobatic loop is implemented here. The gigantic structure weighing 10 tons consists of 21 sections. It's a kind of automotive portal – a mixture of Maserati's past, present, future.
