10 mind-blowing facts about Maserati 

A motorized bicycle, watersport competitions, Formula One trophies, a female racer, and a couple other fascinating stories 

The history of the legendary Italian company Maserati is full of achievements, and not just in the racing world. All ventures featuring the Maserati brand were astonishingly triumphant. Obviously, the company's history wouldn’t have been so glorious without some charismatic characters and genius decisions. We collected 10 stories that defined the history of Maserati. 

A bicycle that runs itself

One of the Maserati brothers, the eldest brother Carlo, was a devoted bicycle enthusiast. It was Carlo who took part in the development of the first Maserati car. But before that, he developed a unique bicycle by attaching a one-cylinder motor to a regular bicycle. This motor was designed specifically for bicycles and was a unique invention at the time. 

Carlo liked his invention so much that he decided to improve it by eliminating malfunctions, strengthening the frame, and even slightly increasing the engine power. Later on, he took his bike to a couple of races, and in 1900 he set a speed record of 50 km/h. Unthinkable speed even by today’s standards. 

A trident and 200 km/h

The Neptune's trident seen on the grilles of all modern Maserati vehicles has been used since 1926. The first car to bear the logo was the legendary Tipo 26. This car would later become a basis for the development of modified versions, more powerful, advanced, and, most importantly, faster. 

The original Tipo 26 was still quite a good vehicle in terms of its technical characteristics. It carried an eight-cylinder engine under the hood, contributing to 120 horsepower. This was enough for the car to reach 200 km/h speed. Can you imagine such speeds in 1920? 

Maserati equals sport 

From the very first days of its existence, Maserati actively took part in races, and the first major triumphs did not take long to achieve. In the early years of the 20th century, Italians faced fierce competition, but even then Maserati managed to demonstrate strong results. 

The company is especially proud of its results in the Indianapolis 500 races held in the US. In 1939, an American racer Wilbur Shaw finished first while driving Maserati 8CTF. Moreover, exactly one year later, the same crew secured another win. This is one of the best and memorable performances among all European manufacturers participating in the Indianapolis 500. 

A triumphant Formula One finish

After the success of Indianapolis 500, Maserati thought about participating in Formula 1. However, F1’s rules restricted the Italian brand from entering the competition with their car for quite a long time. Everything changed in 1952, when the technical requirements for the sports cars were modified. 

Two years later, in 1954, Maserati won the Argentine Grand Prix. The 250F race car was the winner, which forced the leading Formula 1 teams to work really hard to compete with the newcomer. The most notable success is considered to be the 1957 result, when the same 250F car showed the best results throughout the whole season. 

A Count and watersports records 

In the early XX century, a new competition was introduced in Europe, which gained a lot of attention from the automobile industry: motorboat racing. Maserati entered this sport later than its competitors, but immediately achieved good results. The company managed to make Italian speedboats the key favorites in all competitions. 

Count Theo Rossi, a passionate boat racing enthusiast, became Maserati’s most successful speedboat driver. Theo worked closely with Maserati in experimenting with different engines and even suggested installing two motors on one vessel, which was unheard of at the time. During his first race on an experimental vessel on a Lombardy lake, Theo Rossi’s boat tipped over at a great speed, which shocked the competitors and organizers. However, just two days later the Count reached 114 km/h, a record-high at the time. 

The triumphant Maserati MC12

Maserati's recent racing achievements. The main achievements are associated with the outstanding MC12 supercar: the best car in the FIA GT series for three consecutive years. Andrea Bertolini, one of the best Italian racers, was behind the wheel of MC12. 

Interestingly, Bertolini actively participated in the development of MC12 and drove it during tests. MC12 is also one of the most stylish cars of our time: its origin is easily identifiable thanks to the unique Maserati design of the mid 2000s. The vehicle was powered by a huge 745-horsepower turbocharged engine. 

The first female racing driver (drove a Maserati)

Maserati is also famous for a woman who will forever be remembered in the history of motorsport. Her name is Maria Teresa de Filippis. In 1958, she made her debut at the Formula One Grand Prix, becoming the first female F1 racing driver. A month later, Maria Teresa de Filippis drove to the race in Monaco, again, in a Maserati. 

Obviously, it was hard for de Filipis to compete with male F1 drivers: at the time, the top speeds reached horrendous levels that required a lot of strength from the drivers to handle the cars. She finished her racing career at the age of 23, however, in 1979 she was appointed vice president of the International Club of Former F1 Grand Prix Drivers.

The Tea Route record

36 days, 2 hours, 37 minutes and 2 seconds: the time it took the trimaran Maserati Multi 70 to complete the famous Tea Route between Hong Kong and London. The Italian vessel’s crew, under the guidance of skipper Giovanni Soldini, covered 15,083 nautical miles at an average speed of 17.4 knots - another record for the Maserati brand. 

Notably, right after the race Soldini admitted that the time could be better. From a technical point of view, the Maserati Multi 70 was perfect. It was the weather that interfered with the results. Due to harsh conditions, the team lost about 3 days in the Atlantic. 

A sports car for four 

Each new model of Maserati is closely inspected: the company has taught the automotive world to expect unique and unusual solutions. The real sensation happened in 1963 with the release of Quattroporte. It wasn't just Maserati’s first four-door sedan, it was the first ever four-door sports sedan. 

With the release of the Maserati Quattroporte, the Italians, in fact, created a whole new segment. Later on, leading automotive brands followed suit and released premium sports sedans, but Maserati was always one step ahead. In 2013, Italians released the fourth generation of Quattroporte: big, powerful, technologically sophisticated, fast, and incredibly stylish. 

An ‘acrobatic loop’

The history of Maserati is not just about glorious racing triumphs, unusual records, bold decisions and, surely, stylish and fast cars. Today, the brand also has the coolest showroom in the world. The showroom is based in Modena. Its concept was developed by Ron Arad, an iconic designer famous for his unique approach. 

It is a complex of structures made of glass and steel, but the most interesting part lays inside, in the lobby of the main building. Here, we can see the implementation of the so-called ‘acrobatic loop’ concept. An enormous structure weighing 10 tons and consisting of 21 sections. It resembles some kind of a portal to the car world, showing the past, present, and future of Maserati. 