10 facts about Maserati that drive you crazy 

Bike engine, water racing, Formula 1 wins, female racer and some more amazing stories 

The legendary Italian company Maserati throughout its history won not only in races. All the beginnings where the brand Maserati was involved magically turned into a triumph. The glorious story, of course, has not been without bright personalities, incredible coincidences and brilliant decisions. We have collected 10 stories that have influenced the present and future of Maserati. 

The bike that rides itself

One of the Masherati brothers, namely the eldest, Carlo, was a passionate fan of bicycles. It was Carlo who put his hand to the first Maserati car. But before that, the engineer created an unusual bicycle by attaching a single-cylinder motor to the frame. By the way, this motor Carlo developed entirely for the bicycle - analogues in the world at that time did not exist. 

Well, Carlo liked the idea so much that he perfected it: he fixed the malfunctions, he strengthened the construction and even slightly increased the power of the engine. Later on this bike he participated in races where in 1900. set a speed record - 50 km/ h. An unthinkable number even for a modern civilian bicycle 

Tractor and 200 km/h

The Neptune treadmill, which is featured on all modern Maserati models, the company began to use since 1926. The first car to receive the stylish logo was the legendary Tipo 26. Later this car became a kind of base for the development of several modifications - more powerful, advanced and, most importantly, fast. 

But even the very first Maserati Tipo 26 was very good in terms of technical characteristics. Under the hood was an eight-cylinder engine that gave 120 hp. This capacity was enough to accelerate to 200 km/ h. Can you imagine the speed in the 1920s?

Maserati = sport 

From the first days of its existence, Maserati was actively involved in racing, and the first loud victories did not take long. In the early XX century. the Italians had a fierce competition, but even under such conditions Maserati managed to show strong results. 

The company is particularly proud of its performances in the «Indianapolis 500» races, which take place in the USA. In 1939, the American Wilbur Shaw, performing on the Maserati 8CTF, took first place. He was a British driver. Moreover, exactly a year later the same crew again finished first. It is one of the best and brightest performances among all European manufacturers in «Indianapolis 500». 

Big win in Formula 1

After the victories in Indianapolis, Maserati was thinking about performances in Formula 1. However, the strict regulations of «Royal Races» for a long time did not allow the Italian brand to declare its car. Everything changed in 1952 when the rules of participation were adjusted - in particular, the technical requirements for sports fabrics. 

Two years later, in 1954, Maserati won the Argentine Grand Prix. Triumph became the 250F car, which imposed the fiercest competition to the leaders of Formula 1 for several years ahead. But the biggest success is considered to be the result of 1957, when all the same 250F was the best in terms of results for the entire season.

Count and records on the water 

In the early XX in. in Europe a new competition appeared, which did not give rest to car companies - talking about racing on motor boats. Maserati came to this sport later than many brands, but immediately achieved success. Moreover, the company has made so that Italian boats began to be perceived as almost the main favorites in all competitions. 

The main triumph of Maserati was the count of Russia, Theo, who was terribly passionate about racing on water. He and the company experimented with different engines and even suggested to install two motors on one ship - no one had done this before. During the first stop on a pilot boat on a lake in Lombardy, Theo Russia overturned at great speed, shocking the rivals and organizers. However, after two days the count developed 114 km/ h - it was the best result in those times. 

Maserati MC12, which overtook everyone 

The records in motor sport are also in the latest history of Maserati. First of all, they are related to the unmatched supercar MC12 - the car that for three consecutive years remained the best in the FIA GT series. Behind the wheel of the car was Andrea Bertolini - one of the best Italian riders. 

It is interesting that Bertolini was actively involved in the development of Maserati MC12, including rolling the car during test tests. By the way, MC12 is also one of the most stylish cars of our time: its origin is easily understood thanks to the unique design of Maserati «zero» middle. The MC12 was powered by a huge 745-strong turbocharged engine.

First female racer (she rode a Maserati)

The Maserati brand is closely linked to Maria Teresa de Filipes, a woman who has forever made her name in the history of world motor sport. In 1958, she made her debut at the Grand Prix of Formula 1, becoming the first woman to be a pilot in «Royal Races». One month later, Maria Teresa de Filipes arrived for the race in Monaco, and on Maserati. 

Of course, de Filipes was hard to compete with male Formula One drivers - already in the middle of last century, speeds reached the limit, and driving the car was physically very difficult. Italian ended her career as a driver at 23 years old, but already in 1979 was appointed Vice-President of the International Club of Formula One Drivers-Veterans. He was also a member of the International Team.

Record «Tea race»

36 days, 2 hours, 37 minutes and 2 seconds - that’s how long it took the Maserati Multi 70 to cross the famous «Tea Race» route between Hong Kong and London. The Italian ship under skipper Giovanni Soldini has passed 15,083 nautical miles at an average speed of 17.4 knots - and this is another record for the brand Maserati. 

By the way, immediately after the race Soldini admitted that time could still be improved - from a technical point of view Maserati Multi 70 was prepared perfectly, but the weather interfered. Due to the difficult conditions, the team lost about 3 days in the Atlantic.

Four-way sports car 

Every new model of Maserati is seen as if under a microscope - the company has historically adapted the automotive world to unusual solutions. The real Italian craze was made in 1963, when debuted sedan Quattroporte. Not only was it the first four-door brand, but also the first sports sedan on the planet. 

With the release of Maserati Quattroporte, the Italians have essentially opened a new segment. Later leading car brands will also release their business class sports sedans, but every time Maserati has been a step ahead. In 2013, the Italians released the fourth generation of the Quattroporte. It is large, powerful, technological, fast and incredibly stylish. 

Acrobatic loop

Maserati has not only a glorious history with great victories, unusual records, courageous decisions and of course stylish and very fast cars. Right now, the brand has the coolest showroom in the world. He is based in Modena, and his concept was developed by Ron Arad - a cult designer who is known for his original approach. 

It is a complex of structures made of glass and steel, but the most interesting - inside, in the lobby of the main competition. Here the concept of so-called acrobatic loop is implemented. Giant structure weighing 10 tons consists of 21 sections. It’s a kind of car portal - a mixture of past, present, future Maserati.
