10 Facts about Maserati That Drive You Crazy 

An engine on a bike, competitions on the water, victories in Formula 1, a female racer and some more amazing stories 

The legendary Italian company Maserati has won victories not only in racing throughout its history. All the initiatives where the Maserati brand appeared magically turned into a triumph. The glorious story, of course, was not without bright personalities, incredible coincidences and ingenious solutions. We have collected 10 stories that have influenced the present and future of Maserati. 

A bike that rides by itself

One of the Maserati brothers, namely the elder Carlo, was a passionate fan of bicycles. It was Carlo who had a hand in the first Maserati car. But first, the engineer created an unusual bicycle by attaching a single-cylinder motor to the frame. By the way, Carlo developed this motor entirely specifically for a bicycle – there were no analogues in the world at that time. 

So, Carlo liked this idea so much that he brought his project to perfection: eliminated malfunctions, strengthened the structure and even slightly increased the engine power. Later, he took part in races on this bike, where in 1900 he set a speed record of 50 km/h. An unthinkable figure even for a modern civilian bike 

Trident and 200 km/h

The Neptune trident, which is emblazoned on all modern Maserati models, has been used by the company since 1926. Moreover, the first car to receive a stylish logo was the legendary Tipo 26. Later, this car became a kind of base for the development of several modifications – more powerful, advanced and, most importantly, fast. 

But the very first Maserati Tipo 26 was also very good in terms of technical characteristics. Under the hood he had an eight-cylinder engine that produced 120 hp. This power was enough to accelerate to 200 km / h. Can you imagine such a speed in the 1920s? 

Maserati = sport 

Since the first days of its existence, Maserati has been actively involved in racing, and the first high-profile victories did not take long to wait. At the beginning of the 20th century, the Italians had fierce competition, but even in such conditions Maserati managed to show strong results. 

The company is especially proud of the performances in the Indianapolis 500 races, which take place in the United States. In 1939, American Wilbur Shaw, driving a Maserati 8CTF, took first place there. Moreover, exactly one year later, the same crew finished first again. This is one of the best and brightest performances among all European manufacturers in the Indianapolis 500. 

A resounding victory in Formula 1

After the victories in Indianapolis, Maserati thought about performing in Formula 1. However, the strict regulations of the "Royal Races" for a long time did not allow the Italian brand to declare its car. Everything changed in 1952, when the rules of participation were adjusted – in particular, the technical requirements for sports cars. 

Two years later, in 1954, Maserati took first place at the Argentine Grand Prix. The triumph was the 250F car, which imposed the fiercest competition on the leaders of Formula 1 for several years to come. But the most high-profile success is considered to be the result of 1957, when the same 250F became the best in terms of the results of the entire season. 

Graph and records on the water 

At the beginning of the XX century. A new competition has appeared in Europe that has been bothering car companies – it's about motorboat racing. Maserati entered this sport later than many brands, but immediately achieved success. Moreover, the company made it so that Italian boats began to be perceived almost as the main favorites in all competitions. 

The main triumph of Maserati was Count Theo of Russia, who was terribly passionate about racing on the water. He and the company experimented with different engines and even suggested installing two engines on one ship at once – no one had done this before in those days. During the first race on an experimental vessel on a lake in Lombardy, Theo of Russia capsized at high speed, shocking rivals and organizers. However, two days later, the count reached 114 km/h – this was the best result in those days. 

The Maserati MC12 that overtook everyone 

There are records in motorsport in the recent history of Maserati. First of all, they are connected with the inimitable MC12 supercar, a car that remained the best in the FIA GT series for three years in a row. Andrea Bertolini, one of the best Italian drivers, was driving the car. 

Moreover, it is interesting that Bertolini was actively involved in the development of the Maserati MC12, including running the car during test tests. By the way, the MC12 is also one of the most stylish cars of our time: its origin is easily read thanks to the unique design of Maserati in the middle of the "noughties". The MC12 was powered by a huge 745-horsepower turbocharged engine. 

The first female racer (she drove a Maserati)

Maria Teresa de Philippis, a woman who has forever inscribed her name in the history of world motorsport, is closely associated with the Maserati brand. In 1958 . She made her debut at the Formula 1 Grand Prix, becoming the first female driver in the "Royal Races". A month later, Maria Teresa de Philippis came to the race in Monaco, and in a Maserati. 

Of course, it was hard for de Philippis to compete with male drivers in Formula 1 - already in the middle of the last century, speeds reached an exorbitant level, and driving a car was physically extremely difficult. The Italian finished her career as a pilot at the age of 23, but in 1979 she was appointed vice-president of the International Club of Veteran Formula 1 Racers.

The record of the "Tea Race"

36 days, 2 hours, 37 minutes and 2 seconds – that's how long it took the Maserati Multi 70 trimaran to cover the route of the famous "Tea Race" between Hong Kong and London. The Italian vessel, led by skipper Giovanni Soldini, covered 15,083 nautical miles with an average speed of 17.4 knots – and this is another Maserati brand record. 

By the way, immediately after the race, Soldini admitted that the time could also have been improved – from a technical point of view, the Maserati Multi 70 was prepared perfectly, but the weather intervened. Due to difficult conditions, the team lost about 3 days in the Atlantic. 

Sports car for four 

Every new Maserati model is viewed as if under a microscope – the company has accustomed the automotive world to unusual solutions throughout history. The Italians made a real splash in 1963, when the Quattroporte sedan debuted. Not only was it the brand's first four-door, but it was also the first sports sedan on the planet. 

With the release of the Maserati Quattroporte, the Italians essentially opened a new segment. Later, leading car brands will also release their business-class sports sedans, but every time Maserati was one step ahead. In 2013, the Italians released the fourth generation Quattroporte – large, powerful, technologically advanced, fast and incredibly stylish. 

Acrobatic Loop

Maserati has not only a glorious history with magnificent victories, unusual records, bold decisions and, of course, stylish and very fast cars. Right now, the brand boasts the coolest showroom in the world. It is located in Modena, and its concept was developed by Ron Arad, an iconic designer who is known for his original approach. 

This is a whole complex of glass and steel structures, but the most interesting thing is inside, in the lobby of the main competition. The concept of the so-called acrobatic loop is implemented here. The giant structure weighing 10 tons consists of 21 sections. This is a kind of automotive portal – a mixture of the past, present, and future of Maserati.